# 30 Shades of Seattle

The purpose of this infographic is to show the different colors of Seattle though out a short period of time. I communicated this by processing thirty photos taken on February 8th, February 9th, and February 10th, 2022. This is a small-time window in order for the data to be representative of the colors throughout the entirety of the year. To keep things consistent, the photos were taken at the same location with the same camera. This way no new factors that might affect the light in the photos are introduced. These photos are represented in the infographic with a stacked bar chart. Each bar represents a photo and each color in the bar is one of the ten dominant colors in the image. The three white and black lines differentiate the three days that the photos were taken. Above the graph, there's a title and a short introduction that explains the visualization.

Once I had the thirty photos, I used a Google collab to analyze the photos. The big idea was to classify each photo by its ten most dominant colors. In order to do this I first, imported the photos to a shared Google Drive. This drive was then linked to the Google Collab which allowed me to edit them in the notebook. To import the images into the notebook and classify them I utilized the image module from PIL. The resulting image was exported to a different folder in Google Drive.

Before the images were represented in the stacked bar chart they had to go through significant editing. The edited images were imported again into the notebook. Using numpy I created two arrays: colours and counts. The colours had ten arrays inside representing the dominant colors of the images. The counts array had ten values which was the pixel count for each one of the dominant colors in the colours array. We then created a panda data frame with five columns: id, datetime, colorhex, numpixel, and percentage. We created a function that would transform the RGB colors from the colours array to a hex value. Also, we created a function that would extract the when the photo was taken. This gave us all the information we needed to populate the panda data frame for each image. Finally, we wrote a function that encapsulated all of the steps above which took two parameters: the original photo and the classified photo. We utilized the photo to create thirty different panda data frames and then combined them into one. For the visualization, we used a csv file which was composed of the combination of all the data frames from the processed photos. In order to create the visualization, we used the altair library. This allowed us to use the percentage column for each image and assign it the corresponding hex value for the stacked bar chart.

This project is a good representation of what the Seattle colors are during this time of the year. These shades of blues, grays, and warm pastels show what the Seattle skies are like. I am very happy with the result. Our team was a pleasure to work with. I again wouldn’t change anything about our group. I did all of the coding, but this is because I wanted to. Throughout the project, I was taking into consideration what the group wanted to do, but the implementation what up to me. Our group is very fun to work with!